A - Plan
A.1. Information Services (IS) and Business Strategy Alignment
Anticipates long-term business requirements, influences improvement of organisational process efficiency and effectiveness. Determines the Information Services (IS) model and the enterprise architecture in line with the organisation's policy and ensures a secure environment. Makes strategic Information Services (IS) policy decisions for the enterprise, including sourcing strategies.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership for the construction and implementation of long term innovative Information Services (IS) solutions.
Proficiency Level 5 - Provides Information Services (IS) strategic leadership to reach consensus and commitment from the management team of the enterprise.
Knowledge Examples
K1 business strategy concepts
K2 trends and implications of Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) internal or external developments for typical organisations
K3 the potential and opportunities of relevant business models
K4 the business aims and organisational objectives
K5 the issues and implications of sourcing models
K6 the new emerging technologies (e.g.distributed systems, virtualisation, mobility, data sets)
K7 architectural frameworks
K8 security
Skills Examples
S1 analyse future developments in business process and technology application
S2 determine requirements for processes related to Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) services
S3 identify and analyse long term user/customer needs
S4 contribute to the development of Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) strategy and policy, including Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) security and quality
S5 contribute to the development of the business strategy
S6 analyse feasibility in terms of costs and benefits
S7 review and analyse effects of implementations
S8 understand the impact of new technologies on business (e.g. open/big data, dematerialisation opportunities and strategies)
S9 understand the business benefits of new technologies and how this can add value and provide competitive advantage (e.g. open/big data, dematerialisation opportunities and strategies)
S10 understand the enterprise architecture
S11 understand the legal & regulatory landscape in order to factor into business requirements
A.2. Service Level Management
Defines, validates and makes applicable service level agreements (SLAs) and underpinning contracts for services offered. Negotiates service performance levels taking into account the needs and capacity of stakeholders and business.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Ensures the content of the service level agreements (SLA).
Proficiency Level 4 - Negotiates revision of service level agreements (SLAs), in accordance with the overall objectives. Ensures the achievement of planned results.
Knowledge Examples
K1 service level agreements (SLA) documentation
K2 how to compare and interpret management data
K3 the elements forming the metrics of service level agreements
K4 how service delivery infrastructures work
K5 impact of service level non-compliance on business performance
K6 Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) security standards
K7 Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) quality standards
Skills Examples
S1 analyse service provision records
S2 evaluate service provision against service level agreements (SLA)
S3 negotiate realistic service level targets
S4 use relevant quality management techniques
S5 anticipate and mitigate against potential service disruptions
A.3. Business Plan Development
Addresses the design and structure of a business or product plan including the identification of alternative approaches as well as return on investment propositions. Considers the possible and applicable sourcing models. Presents cost benefit analysis and reasoned arguments in support of the selected strategy. Ensures compliance with business and technology strategies. Communicates and sells business plan to relevant stakeholders and addresses political, financial, and organisational interests.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Exploits specialist knowledge to provide analysis of market environment etc.
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership for the creation of an information system strategy that meets the requirements of the business( e.g. distributed, mobility-based) and includes risks and opportunities.
Proficiency Level 5 - Applies strategic thinking and organisational leadership to exploit the capability of Information Technology to improve the business.
Knowledge Examples
K1 business plan elements and milestones
K2 the present and future market size and needs
K3 competition and Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) analysis techniques (for product features and also the external environment)
K4 value creation channels
K5 profitability elements
K6 the issues and implications of sourcing models
K7 financial planning and dynamics
K8 new emerging technologies
K9 risk and opportunity assessment techniques
Skills Examples
S1 address and identify essential elements of product or solution value propositions
S2 define the appropriate value creation channels
S3 build a detailed Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) analysis
S4 generate short and long term performance reports (e.g. financial, profitability, usage and value creation)
S5 identify main milestones of the plan
A.4. Product/ Service Planning
Analyses and defines current and target status. Estimates cost effectiveness, points of risk, opportunities, strengths and weaknesses, with a critical approach. Creates structured plans; establishes time scales and milestones, ensuring optimisation of activities and resources. Manages change requests. Defines delivery quantity and provides an overview of additional documentation requirements. Specifies correct handling of products, including legal issues, in accordance with current regulations.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Acts systematically to document standard and simple elements of a product.
Proficiency Level 3 - Exploits specialist knowledge to create and maintain complex documents.
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership and takes responsibility for, developing and maintaining overall plans.
Knowledge Examples
K1 effective frameworks and methodologies for governance plans
K2 typical key performance indicators (KPI)
K3 basic decision-making methods
K4 Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) principles and regulation
K5 agile techniques
K6 structured Project Management Methodologies (e.g. agile techniques)
K7 optimisation methods (e.g. lean management)
K8 new emerging technologies
Skills Examples
S1 identify all potential targets for the product or service
S2 define the communication plan; identify key users and create related documentation
S3 produce quality plans
S4 ensure and manage adequate information for decision makers
S5 manage the change request process
S6 manage the product/ service development management lifecycle (inclusive of the formal change request process)
A.5. Architecture Design
Specifies, refines, updates and makes available a formal approach to implement solutions, necessary to develop and operate the Information Services (IS) architecture. Identifies change requirements and the components involved: hardware, software, applications, processes, information and technology platform. Takes into account interoperability, scalability, usability and security. Maintains alignment between business evolution and technology developments.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Exploits specialist knowledge to define relevant Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) technology and specifications to be deployed in the construction of multiple Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) projects, applications or infrastructure improvements.
Proficiency Level 4 - Acts with wide ranging accountability to define the strategy to implement Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) technology compliant with business need. Takes account of the current technology platform, obsolescent equipment and latest technological innovations.
Proficiency Level 5 - Provides Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) strategic leadership for implementing the enterprise strategy. Applies strategic thinking to discover and recognize new patterns in vast datasets and new Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) systems, to achieve business savings.
Knowledge Examples
K1 architecture frameworks,methodologies and systems design tools
K2 systems architecture requirements: performance, maintainability, extendibility, scalability, availability, security and accessibility
K3 costs, benefits and risks of a system architecture
K4 the company's enterprise architecture and internal standards
K5 new emerging technologies (e.g., distributed systems, virtualisation models, datasets, mobile systems)
Skills Examples
S1 provide expertise to help solve complex technical problems and ensures best architecture solutions are implemented
S2 use knowledge in various technology areas to build and deliver the enterprise architecture
S3 understand the business objectives/drivers that impact the architecture component (data, application, security, development etc)
S4 assist in communication of the enterprise architecture and standards, principles and objectives to the application teams
S5 develop design patterns and models to assist system analysts in designing consistent applications
A.6. Application Design
Analyses, specifies, updates and makes available a model to implement applications in accordance with Information Services (IS) policy and user/customer needs. Selects appropriate technical options for application design, optimising the balance between cost and quality. Designs data structures and builds system structure models according to analysis results through modeling languages. Ensures that all aspects take account of interoperability, usability and security. Identifies a common reference framework to validate the models with representative users, based upon development models (e.g. iterative approach).
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 1 - Contributes to the design and general functional specification and interfaces.
Proficiency Level 2 - Organises the overall planning of the design of the application.
Proficiency Level 3 - Accounts for own and others actions in ensuring that the application is correctly integrated within a complex environment and complies with user/customer needs.
Knowledge Examples
K1 requirements modelling and need analysis techniques
K2 software developments methods and their rationale (e.g. prototyping, agile methods, reverse engineering, etc.)
K3 metrics related to application development
K4 user interface design principles
K5 languages for formalising functional specification
K6 existing applications and related architecture
K7 Database Management System (DBMS), Data Warehouse, DSS... etc
K8 mobile technologies
K9 threat modelling techniques
Skills Examples
S1 identify customers, users and stakeholders
S2 collect, formalise and validate functional and no-functional requirements
S3 apply estimation models and data to evaluate costs of different software lifecycle phases
S4 evaluate the use of prototypes to support requirements validation
S5 design, organise and monitor the overall plan for the design of application
S6 design functional specification starting from defined requirements
S7 evaluate the suitability of different application development methods for the current scenario
S8 establish systematic and frequent communication with customers, users and stakeholders
S9 ensure that controls & functionality are built in to the design
A.7. Technology Trend Monitoring
Investigates latest Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) technological developments to establish understanding of evolving technologies. Devises innovative solutions for integration of new technology into existing products, applications or services or for the creation of new solutions.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 4 - Exploits wide ranging specialist knowledge of new and emerging technologies, coupled with a deep understanding of the business, to envision and articulate solutions for the future. Provides expert guidance and advice, to the leadership team to support strategic decision-making.
Proficiency Level 5 - Makes strategic decisions envisioning and articulating future Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) solutions for customer-oriented processes, new business products and services; directs the organisation to build and exploit them.
Knowledge Examples
K1 emerging technologies and the relevant market applications
K2 market needs
K3 relevant sources of information (e.g. magazines, conferences and events, news letters, opinion leaders, on-line forums, etc.)
K4 the rules of discussions in web communities
K5 applied research programme approaches
Skills Examples
S1 monitor sources of information and continuously follow the most promising
S2 identify vendors and providers of the most promising solutions; evaluates, justifies and proposes the most appropriate
S3 identify business advantages and improvements of adopting emerging technologies
A.8. Sustainable Development
Estimates the impact of Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) solutions in terms of eco responsibilities including energy consumption. Advises business and Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) stakeholders on sustainable alternatives that are consistent with the business strategy. Applies an Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) purchasing and sales policy which fulfils eco-responsibilities.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Promotes awareness, training and commitment for the deployment of sustainable development and applies the necessary tools for piloting this approach.
Proficiency Level 4 - Defines objective and strategy of sustainable Information Services (IS) development in accordance with the organisation's sustainability policy.
Knowledge Examples
K1 metrics and indicators related to sustainable development
K2 Corporate social responsibility (CSR) of stakeholders within the Information Technology (IT) infrastructure
Skills Examples
S1 monitor and measure the Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) energy consumption
S2 apply recommendations in projects to support latest sustainable development strategies
S3 master regulatory constraints and international standards related to Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) sustainability
A.9. Innovating
Devises creative solutions for the provision of new concepts, ideas, products or services. Deploys novel and open thinking to envision exploitation of technological advances to address business/ society needs or research direction.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 4 - Applies independent thinking and technology awareness to lead the integration of disparate concepts for the provision of unique solutions.
Proficiency Level 5 - Challenges the status quo and provides strategic leadership for the introduction of revolutionary concepts.
Knowledge Examples
K1 existing and emerging technologies and market applications
K2 business, society and/ or research habits, trends and needs
K3 innovation processes techniques
Skills Examples
S1 identify business advantages and improvements of adopting emerging technologies
S2 create a proof of concept
S3 think out of the box
S4 identify appropriate resources
B - Build
B.1. Application Development
Interprets the application design to develop a suitable application in accordance with customer needs. Adapts existing solutions by e.g. porting an application to another operating system. Codes, debugs, tests and documents and communicates product development stages. Selects appropriate technical options for development such as reusing, improving or reconfiguration of existing components. Optimises efficiency, cost and quality. Validates results with user representatives, integrates and commissions the overall solution.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 1 - Acts under guidance to develop, test and document applications.
Proficiency Level 2 - Systematically develops and validates applications.
Proficiency Level 3 - Acts creatively to develop applications and to select appropriate technical options. Accounts for others development activities. Optimizes application development, maintenance and performance by employing design patterns and by reusing proved solutions.
Knowledge Examples
K1 appropriate software programs/ modules
K2 hardware components, tools and hardware architectures
K3 functional and technical designing
K4 state of the art technologies
K5 programming languages
K6 power consumption models of software and/or hardware
K7 Database Management System (DBMS)
K8 operating systems and software platforms
K9 integrated development environment (IDE)
K10 rapid application development (RAD)
K11 Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) issues
K12 modelling technology and languages
K13 interface definition languages (IDL)
K14 security
Skills Examples
S1 explain and communicate the design/development to the customer
S2 perform and evaluate test results against product specifications
S3 apply appropriate software and/or hardware architectures
S4 develop user interfaces, business software components and embedded software components
S5 manage and guarantee high levels of cohesion and quality
S6 use data models
S7 perform and evaluate test in the customer or target environment
S8 cooperate with development team and with application designers
B.2. Component Integration
Integrates hardware, software or sub system components into an existing or a new system. Complies with established processes and procedures such as, configuration management and package maintenance. Takes into account the compatibility of existing and new modules to ensure system integrity, system interoperability and information security. Verifies and tests system capacity and performance and documentation of successful integration.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Acts systematically to identify compatibility of software and hardware specifications. Documents all activities during installation and records deviations and remedial activities.
Proficiency Level 3 - Accounts for own and others actions in the integration process. Complies with appropriate standards and change control procedures to maintain integrity of the overall system functionality and reliability.
Proficiency Level 4 - Exploits wide ranging specialist knowledge to create a process for the entire integration cycle, including the establishment of internal standards of practice. Provides leadership to marshal and assign resources for programmes of integration.
Knowledge Examples
K1 old, existing and new hardware components/ software programs/ modules
K2 the impact that system integration has on existing system/ organisation
K3 interfacing techniques between modules, systems and components
K4 integration testing techniques
K5 development tools (e.g. development environment, management, source code access/revision control)
K6 best practice design techniques
Skills Examples
S1 measure system performance before, during and after system integration
S2 document and record activities, problems and related repair activities
S3 match customers' needs with existing products
S4 verify that integrated systems capabilities and efficiency match specifications
S5 secure/ back-up data to ensure integrity during system integration
B.3. Testing
Constructs and executes systematic test procedures for Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) systems or customer usability requirements to establish compliance with design specifications. Ensures that new or revised components or systems perform to expectation. Ensures meeting of internal, external, national and international standards; including health and safety, usability, performance, reliability or compatibility. Produces documents and reports to evidence certification requirements.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 1 - Performs simple tests in strict compliance with detailed instructions.
Proficiency Level 2 - Organises test programmes and builds scripts to stress test potential vulnerabilities. Records and reports outcomes providing analysis of results.
Proficiency Level 3 - Exploits specialist knowledge to supervise complex testing programmes. Ensures tests and results are documented to provide input to subsequent process owners such as designers, users or maintainers. Accountable for compliance with testing procedures including a documented audit trail.
Proficiency Level 4 - Exploits wide ranging specialist knowledge to create a process for the entire testing activity, including the establishment of internal standard of practices. Provides expert guidance and advice to the testing team.
Knowledge Examples
K1 techniques, infrastructure and tools to be used in the testing process
K2 the lifecycle of a testing process
K3 the different sorts of tests (functional, integration, performance, usability, stress etc.)
K4 national and international standards defining quality criteria for testing
K5 web, cloud and mobile technologies and environmental requirements
Skills Examples
S1 create and manage a test plan
S2 manage and evaluate the test process
S3 design tests of Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) systems
S4 prepare and conduct tests of Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) systems
S5 report and document tests and results
B.4. Solution Deployment
Following predefined general standards of practice carries out planned necessary interventions to implement solution, including installing, upgrading or decommissioning. Configures hardware, software or network to ensure interoperability of system components and debugs any resultant faults or incompatibilities. Engages additional specialist resources if required, such as third party network providers. Formally hands over fully operational solution to user and completes documentation recording all relevant information, including equipment addressees, configuration and performance data.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 1 - Removes or installs components under guidance and in accordance with detailed instructions.
Proficiency Level 2 - Acts systematically to build or deconstruct system elements. Identifies failing components and establishes root cause failures. Provides support to less experienced colleagues.
Proficiency Level 3 - Accounts for own and others actions for solution provision and initiates comprehensive communication with stakeholders. Exploits specialist knowledge to influence solution construction providing advice and guidance.
Knowledge Examples
K1 performance analysis techniques
K2 techniques related to problem management (operation, performance, compatibility)
K3 software packaging and distribution methods and techniques
K4 the impacts of deployment on the current architecture
K5 the technologies and standards to be used during the deployment
K6 web, cloud and mobile technologies and environmental requirements
Skills Examples
S1 organise deployment workflow and product roll-out activities
S2 organise and plan beta-test activities, testing solution in its final operational environment
S3 configure components at any level to guarantee correct overall interoperability
S4 identify and engage expertise needed to solve interoperability problems
S5 organise and control initial support service provision including user training during system start-up
S6 organise population of data bases and manage data migration
S7 collaborate to modify 3rd party code; support and maintain modified software
B.5. Documentation Production
Produces documents describing products, services, components or applications to establish compliance with relevant documentation requirements. Selects appropriate style and media for presentation materials. Creates templates for document-management systems. Ensures that functions and features are documented in an appropriate way. Ensures that existing documents are valid and up to date.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 1 - Uses and applies standards to define document structure.
Proficiency Level 2 - Determines documentation requirements taking into account the purpose and environment to which it applies.
Proficiency Level 3 - Adapts the level of detail according to the objective of the documentation and the targeted population.
Knowledge Examples
K1 tools for production, editing and distribution of professional documents
K2 tools for multimedia presentation creation
K3 different technical documents required for designing, developing and deploying products, applications and services
K4 version control of documentation production
Skills Examples
S1 observe and deploy effective use of corporate standards for publications
S2 prepare templates for shared publications
S3 organise and control content management workflow
S4 keep publications aligned to the solution during the entire lifecycle
B.6. Systems Engineering
Engineers software and/ or hardware components to meet solution requirements such as specifications, costs, quality, time, energy efficiency, information security and data protection. Follows a systematic methodology to analyse and build the required components and interfaces. Builds system structure models and conducts system behavior simulation. Performs unit and system tests to ensure requirements are met.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Ensures interoperability of the system components. Exploits wide ranging specialist knowledge to create a complete system that will satisfy the system constraints and meet the customer’s expectations.
Proficiency Level 4 - Handles complexity by developing standard procedures and architectures in support of cohesive product development. Establishes a set of system requirements that will guide the design of the system. Identifies which system requirements should be allocated to which elements of the system.
Knowledge Examples
K1 appropriate software programs/ modules, Database Management System (DBMS) and programming languages
K2 hardware components, tools and hardware architectures
K3 functional & technical designing
K4 state of the art technologies
K5 programming languages
K6 power consumption models of software and/or hardware
K7 information security basics
K8 prototyping
Skills Examples
S1 explain and communicate the design/development to the customer
S2 perform and evaluate test results against product specifications
S3 apply appropriate software and/or hardware architectures
S4 design and develop hardware architecture, user interfaces, business software components and embedded software components
S5 manage and guarantee high levels of cohesion and quality in complex software developments
S6 use data models
S7 apply appropriate development and/or process models, to develop effectively and efficiently
C - Run
C.1. User Support
Responds to user requests and issues, recording relevant information. Assures resolution or escalates incidents and optimises system performance in accordance with predefined service level agreements service level agreements (SLAs). Understands how to monitor solution outcome and resultant customer satisfaction.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 1 - Interacts with users, applies basic product knowledge to respond to user requests. Solves incidents, following prescribed procedures.
Proficiency Level 2 - Systematically interprets user problems and identifies solutions and possible side effects. Uses experience to address user problems and interrogates database for potential solutions. Escalates complex or unresolved incidents. Records and tracks issues from outset to conclusion.
Proficiency Level 3 - Manages the support process and accountable for agreed service level agreements (SLA). Plans resource allocation to meet defined service level. Acts creatively, and applies continuous service improvement. Manages the support function budget.
Knowledge Examples
K1 relevant Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) User applications
K2 database structures and content organisation
K3 corporate escalation procedures
K4 software distribution methods and procedures for fix application and file transmission methodologies applicable to software fixes
K5 sources of information for potential solutions
Skills Examples
S1 effectively interrogate users to establish symptoms
S2 analyse symptoms to identify broad area of user error or technical failure
S3 deploy support tools to systematically trace source of error or technical failure
S4 clearly communicate with end users and provide instructions on how to progress issues
S5 record and code issues to support growth and integrity of online support tools
C.2. Change Support
Implements and guides the evolution of an Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) solution. Ensures efficient control and scheduling of software or hardware modifications to prevent multiple upgrades creating unpredictable outcomes. Minimises service disruption as a consequence of changes and adheres to defined service level agreement (SLA). Ensures consideration and compliance with information security procedures.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - During change, acts systematically to respond to day by day operational needs and react to them, avoiding service disruptions and maintaining coherence to (SLA) and information security requirements.
Proficiency Level 3 - Ensures the integrity of the system by controlling the application of functional updates, software or hardware additions and maintenance activities. Complies with budget requirements.
Knowledge Examples
K1 functional specifications of the information system
K2 the existing Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) application technical architecture
K3 how business processes are integrated and their dependency upon Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) applications
K4 change management tools and techniques
K5 the best practices and standards in information security management
Skills Examples
S1 share functional and technical specifications with Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) teams in charge of the maintenance and evolution of Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) solutions
S2 manage communications with Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) teams in charge of the maintenance and the evolution of information systems solutions
S3 analyse the impact of functional/technical changes on users
S4 anticipate all actions required to mitigate the impact of changes (training, documentation, new processes...)
C.3. Service Delivery
Ensures service delivery in accordance with established service level agreements (SLA's). Takes proactive action to ensure stable and secure applications and Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) infrastructure to avoid potential service disruptions, attending to capacity planning and to information security. Updates operational document library and logs all service incidents. Maintains monitoring and management tools (i.e. scripts, procedures). Maintains Information Services (IS) services. Takes proactive measures.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 1 - Acts under guidance to record and track reliability data
Proficiency Level 2 - Systematically analyses performance data and communicates findings to senior experts. Escalates potential service level failures and security risks, recommends actions to improve service reliability. Tracks reliability data against service level agreements (SLA).
Proficiency Level 3 - Programmes the schedule of operational tasks. Manages costs and budget according to the internal procedures and external constraints. Identifies the optimum number of people required to resource the operational management of the Information Services (IS) infrastructure.
Knowledge Examples
K1 how to interpret Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) service delivery requirements
K2 best practices and standards in Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) service delivery
K3 how to monitor service delivery
K4 how to record service delivery actions and able to identify failures
K5 the best practices and standards in information security management
K6 web, cloud and mobile technologies
Skills Examples
S1 apply the processes which comprise the organisation's Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) service delivery strategy
S2 fill in and complete documentation used in Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) service delivery
S3 analyse service delivery provision and report outcomes to senior colleagues
S4 plan and apply manpower workload/requirements for efficient and cost effective service provision
C.4. Problem Management
Identifies and resolves the root cause of incidents. Takes a proactive approach to avoidance or identification of root cause of Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) problems. Deploys a knowledge system based on recurrence of common errors. Resolves or escalates incidents. Optimises system or component performance.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Identifies and classifies incident types and service interruptions. Records incidents cataloguing them by symptom and resolution.
Proficiency Level 3 - Exploits specialist knowledge and in-depth understanding of the Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) infrastructure and problem management process to identify failures and resolve with minimum outage. Makes sound decisions in emotionally charged environments on appropriate action required to minimise business impact. Rapidly identifies failing component, selects alternatives such as repair, replace or reconfigure.
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership and is accountable for the entire problem management process. Schedules and ensures well trained human resources, tools, and diagnostic equipment are available to meet emergency incidents. Has depth of expertise to anticipate critical component failure and make provision for recovery with minimum downtime. Constructs escalation processes to ensure that appropriate resources can be applied to each incident.
Knowledge Examples
K1 the organisation's overall Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) infrastructure and key components
K2 the organisation's reporting procedures
K3 the organisation's critical situation escalation procedures
K4 the application and availability of diagnostic tools
K5 the link between system infrastructure elements and impact of failure on related business processes
Skills Examples
S1 monitor progress of issues throughout lifecycle and communicate effectively
S2 identify potential critical component failures and take action to mitigate effects of failure
S3 conduct risk management audits and act to minimise exposures
S4 allocate appropriate resources to maintenance activities, balancing cost and risk
S5 communicate at all levels to ensure appropriate resources are deployed internally or externally to minimise outages
D - Enable
D.1. Information Security Strategy Development
Defines and makes applicable a formal organisational strategy, scope and culture to maintain safety and security of information from external and internal threats, i.e. digital forensic for corporate investigations or intrusion investigation. Provides the foundation for Information Security Management, including role identification and accountability. Uses defined standards to create objectives for information integrity, availability, and data privacy.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 4 - Exploits depth of expertise and leverages external standards and best practices.
Proficiency Level 5 - Provides strategic leadership to embed information security into the culture of the organisation.
Knowledge Examples
K1 the potential and opportunities of relevant standards and best practices
K2 the impact of legal requirements on information security
K3 the information strategy of the organisation
K4 possible security threats
K5 the mobility strategy
K6 the different service models (Software as a Service SaaS, Platform-as-a-Service PaaS, Infrastructure as a Service IaaS) and operational translations (i.e. cloud computing)
Skills Examples
S1 develop and critically analyse the company strategy for information security
S2 define, present and promote an information security policy for approval by the senior management of the organisation
S3 apply relevant standards, best practices and legal requirements for information security
S4 anticipate required changes to the organisation's information security strategy and formulate new plans
S5 propose effective contingency measures
D.2. Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) Quality Strategy Development
Defines, improves and refines a formal strategy to satisfy customer expectations and improve business performance (balance between cost and risks). Identifies critical processes influencing service delivery and product performance for definition in the Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) quality management system. Uses defined standards to formulate objectives for service management, product and process quality. Identifies Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) quality management accountability.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 4 - Exploits wide ranging specialist knowledge to leverage and authorise the application of external standards and best practices.
Proficiency Level 5 - Provides strategic leadership to embed Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) quality (i.e. metrics and continuous improvement) into the culture of the organisation.
Knowledge Examples
K1 the major information technology industry frameworks - COBIT, ITIL, CMMI, ISO - and their implications for corporate Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) governance
K2 the information strategy of the organisation
K3 the different service models (Software as a Service SaaS, Platform-as-a-Service PaaS, Infrastructure as a Service IaaS) and operational translations (i.e. Cloud Computing)
Skills Examples
S1 define an Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) quality policy to meet the organisation's standards of performance and customer satisfaction objectives
S2 identify quality metrics to be used
S3 apply relevant standards and best practices to maintain information quality
D.3. Education and Training Provision
Defines and implements Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) training policy to address organisational skill needs and gaps. Structures, organises and schedules training programmes and evaluates training quality through a feedback process and implements continuous improvement. Adapts training plans to address changing demand.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Organises the identification of training needs; collates organisation requirements, identifies, selects and prepares schedule of training interventions.
Proficiency Level 3 - Acts creatively to analyse skills gaps; elaborates specific requirements and identifies potential sources for training provision. Has specialist knowledge of the training market and establishes a feedback mechanism to assess the added value of alternative training programmes.
Knowledge Examples
K1 appropriate pedagogical approaches and education delivery methods e.g. classroom, online, text, dvd, ...
K2 the competitive market for educational offering
K3 training needs analysis methodologies
K4 empowerment techniques
Skills Examples
S1 organise training and education schedules to meet market needs
S2 identify and maximise use of resources required to deliver a cost effective schedule
S3 promote and market education and training provision
S4 analyse feedback data and use it to drive continuous improvement of education and training delivery
S5 design curricula and training programmes to meet customer Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) education needs
S6 address CPD needs of staff to meet organisational requirements
D.4. Purchasing
Applies a consistent procurement procedure, including deployment of the following sub processes: specification requirements, supplier identification, proposal analysis, evaluation of the energy efficiency and environmental compliance of products, suppliers and their processes, contract negotiation, supplier selection and contract placement. Ensures that the entire purchasing process is fit for purpose, adds business value to the organisation compliant to legal and regulatory requirements.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Understands and applies the principles of the procurement process; places orders based on existing supplier contracts. Ensures the correct execution of orders, including validation of deliverables and correlation with subsequent payments.
Proficiency Level 3 - Exploits specialist knowledge to deploy the purchasing process, ensuring positive commercial relationships with suppliers. Selects suppliers, products and services by evaluating performance, cost, timeliness and quality. Decides contract placement and complies with organisational policies.
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership for the application of the organisation's procurement policies and makes recommendations for process enhancement. Applies experience and procurement practice expertise to make ultimate purchasing decisions.
Knowledge Examples
K1 typical purchase contract terms and conditions
K2 own organisation purchasing policies
K3 financial models e.g. discount structures
K4 the current market for relevant products or services
K5 the issues and implications of outsourcing services
K6 different service models (Software as a Service SaaS, Platform-as-a-Service PaaS, Infrastructure as a Service IaaS) and operational translations (e.g. Cloud Computing)
Skills Examples
S1 interpret product/service specifications
S2 negotiate terms, conditions and pricing
S3 analyse received proposals/ offers
S4 manage the purchasing budget
S5 lead purchase process improvement
S6 analyse the energy efficiency and environmental-related aspects of a proposal
S7 verify that purchasing processes respect legal issues including Intellectual Property Rights (IPR)
D.5. Sales Proposal Development
Develops technical proposals to meet customer solution requirements and provide sales personnel with a competitive bid. Underlines the energy efficiency and environmental impact related to a proposal. Collaborates with colleagues to align the service or product solution with the organisation's capacity to deliver.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Organises collaboration between relevant internal departments, for example, technical, sales and legal. Facilitates comparison between customer requirement and available 'off the shelf' solutions.
Proficiency Level 3 - Acts creatively to develop proposal incorporating a complex solution. Customises solution in a complex technical and legal environment and ensures feasibility, legal and technical validity of customer offer.
Knowledge Examples
K1 customer needs
K2 internally adopted sales and marketing techniques
K3 legal requirements
K4 internal business practices
K5 product or service unique selling points
K6 the different service models (Software as a Service SaaS, Platform-as-a-Service PaaS, Infrastructure as a Service IaaS) and operational translations (e.g. cloud computing)
Skills Examples
S1 construct the framework for proposal documentation
S2 co-ordinate and facilitate multidisciplinary teams contributing to the proposal
S3 interpret the terms and conditions of the tender documentation
S4 evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of potential competitors
S5 ensure that a proposal is of high quality and is submitted on time
S6 communicates the energy efficiency and environmental-related aspects of a proposal
S7 ensure that proposals meet compliance requirements
D.6. Channel Management
Develops the strategy for managing third party sales outlets. Ensures optimum commercial performance of the value-added resellers (VAR) channel through the provision of a coherent business and marketing strategy. Defines the targets for volume, geographic coverage and the industry sector for value-added resellers (VAR) engagements and structures incentive programmes to achieve complimentary sales results.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Acts creatively to influence the establishment of a value-added resellers (VAR) network. Manages the identification and assessment of potential value-added resellers (VAR) members and sets up support procedures. value-added resellers (VARs) managed to maximise business performance.
Proficiency Level 4 - Exploits wide ranging skills in marketing and sales to create the organisation's value-added resellers (VAR) strategy. Establishes the processes by which value-added resellers (VARs) will be managed to maximise business performance.
Knowledge Examples
K1 the competition (what and where)
K2 the market distribution across the field
K3 sales channel typologies (e.g. direct sales, value-added resellers (VAR), web marketing)
K4 incentive policies
K5 user experience of each channel type
K6 legal issues relating to channels and value-added resellers (VAR) organisations
Skills Examples
S1 choose the best sales channel according to the product or solution being delivered
S2 define discounts according to the competitive environment
S3 select value added retailers based on thorough analyses, plan and make contacts
S4 monitor and supervise channel performances in line with sales forecast and able to define corrective actions if necessary
S5 apply web marketing methods
D.7. Sales Management
Drives the achievement of sales results through the establishment of a sales strategy. Demonstrates the added value of the organisation's products and services to new or existing customers and prospects. Establishes a sales support procedure providing efficient response to sales enquiries, consistent with company strategy and policy. Establishes a systematic approach to the entire sales process, including understanding customer needs, forecasting, prospect evaluation, negotiation tactics and sales closure
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Contributes to the sales process by effectively presenting products or services to customers.
Proficiency Level 4 - Assesses and estimates appropriate sales strategies to deliver company results. Decides and allocates annual sales targets and adjusts incentives to meet market conditions.
Proficiency Level 5 - Assumes ultimate responsibility for the sales performance of the organisation. Authorises resource allocation, prioritises product and service promotions, advises board directors of sales performance.
Knowledge Examples
K1 customer organisation (needs, budget allocation and decision makers)
K2 company specific processes (sales, ITIL, etc.)
K3 market trends and own service offering portfolio
K4 legal, financial and contractual rules
K5 project management procedures
K6 current market imperatives e.g. risks, changes, innovation
Skills Examples
S1 develop strong co-operation between customers and own organisation
S2 keep abreast of market news e.g. risks, changes, innovations and communicate to internal business units, to improve service and product portfolio
S3 react proactively to customer business changes and communicate them internally
S4 generate sustainable customer relationships
S5 analyse sales performance to build forecasts and develop a tactical sales plan
D.8. Contract Management
Provides and negotiates contract in accordance with organisational processes. Ensures that contract and deliverables are provided on time, meet quality standards, and conform to compliance requirements. Addresses non-compliance, escalates significant issues, drives recovery plans and if necessary amends contracts. Maintains budget integrity. Assesses and addresses supplier compliance to legal, health and safety and security standards. Actively pursues regular supplier communication.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Acts systematically to monitor contract compliance and promptly escalate defaults.
Proficiency Level 3 - Evaluates contract performance by monitoring performance indicators. Assures performance of the complete supply chain. Influences the terms of contract renewal.
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership for contract compliance and is the final escalation point for issue resolution.
Knowledge Examples
K1 applicable service level agreements (SLA)
K2 company policy for contract management
K3 legal regulations applicable to Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) contracts
K4 legal issues including Intellectual Property Rights (IPR)
K5 different service models (Software as a Service SaaS, Platform-as-a-Service PaaS, Infrastructure as a Service IaaS), service levels and contractual translations (e.g. Cloud Computing)
Skills Examples
S1 foster positive relationships with stakeholders
S2 negotiate contract terms and conditions
S3 apply judgement and flexibility in contract negotiations compliant with internal rules and policies
D.9. Personnel Development
Diagnoses individual and group competence, identifying skill needs and skill gaps. Reviews training and development options and selects appropriate methodology taking into account the individual, project and business requirements. Coaches and/ or mentors individuals and teams to address learning needs.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Briefs/trains individuals and groups, holds courses of instruction.
Proficiency Level 3 - Monitors and addressees the development needs of individuals and teams.
Proficiency Level 4 - Takes proactive action and develops organisational processes to address the development needs of individuals, teams and the entire workforce.
Knowledge Examples
K1 competence development methods
K2 competence and skill needs analysis methodologies
K3 learning and development support methods (e.g. coaching, teaching)
K4 technologies and processes
K5 empowerment techniques
Skills Examples
S1 identify competence and skill gaps
S2 identify and recommend work based development opportunities
S3 incorporate within routine work processes, opportunities for skills development
S4 coaching
S5 address professional development needs of staff to meet organisational requirements
D.10. Information and Knowledge Management
Identifies and manages structured and unstructured information and considers information distribution policies. Creates information structure to enable exploitation and optimisation of information. Understands appropriate tools to be deployed to create, extract, maintain, renew and propagate business knowledge in order to capitalise from the information asset.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Analyses business processes and associated information requirements and provides the most appropriate information structure.
Proficiency Level 4 - Integrates the appropriate information structure into the corporate environment.
Proficiency Level 5 - Correlates information and knowledge to create value for the business. Applies innovative solutions based on information retrieved.
Knowledge Examples
K1 methods to analyse information and business processes
K2 Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) devices and tools applicable for the storage and retrieval of data
K3 challenges related to the size of data sets (e.g. big data)
K4 challenges related to unstructured data (e.g. data analytics)
Skills Examples
S1 gather internal and external knowledge and information needs
S2 formalise customer requirements
S3 translate/ reflect business behaviour into structured information
S4 make information available
S5 ensure that Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and privacy issues are respected
S6 capture, storage, analyse, data sets, that are complex and large, not structured and in different formats
S7 apply data mining methods
D.11. Needs Identification
Actively listens to internal/ external customers, articulates and clarifies their needs. Manages the relationship with all stakeholders to ensure that the solution is in line with business requirements. Proposes different solutions (e.g. make-or-buy), by performing contextual analysis in support of user centered system design. Advises the customer on appropriate solution choices. Acts as an advocate engaging in the implementation or configuration process of the chosen solution.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Establishes reliable relationships with customers and helps them clarify their needs.
Proficiency Level 4 - Exploits wide ranging specialist knowledge of the customers business to offer possible solutions to business needs. Provides expert guidance to the customer by proposing solutions and supplier.
Proficiency Level 5 - Provides leadership in support of the customer's strategic decisions. Helps customer to envisage new Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) solutions, fosters partnerships and creates value propositions.
Knowledge Examples
K1 emerging technologies and the relevant market applications
K2 business needs
K3 organisation processes and structures
K4 customer need analysis techniques
K5 communication techniques
K6 'Story telling' techniques'
Skills Examples
S1 analyse and formalise business processes
S2 analyse customer requirements
S3 present Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) solution cost/benefit
D.12. Digital Marketing
Understands the fundamental principles of digital marketing. Distinguishes between the traditional and digital approaches. Appreciates the range of channels available. Assesses the effectiveness of the various approaches and applies rigorous measurement techniques. Plans a coherent strategy using the most effective means available. Understands the data protection and privacy issues involved in the implementation of the marketing strategy.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Understands and applies digital marketing tactics to develop an integrated and effective digital marketing plan using different digital marketing areas such as search, display, e-mail, social media and mobile marketing.
Proficiency Level 3 - Exploits specialist knowledge to utilise analytical tools and assess the effectiveness of websites in terms of technical performance and download speed. Evaluates the user engagement by the application of a wide range of analytical reports. Knows the legal implications of the approaches adopted.
Proficiency Level 4 - Develops clear meaningful objectives for the Digital Marketing Plan. Selects appropriate tools and sets budget targets for the channels adopted. Monitors, analyses and enhances the digital marketing activities in an ongoing manner.
Knowledge Examples
K1 marketing strategy
K2 web technologies
K3 search engine marketing (PPC)
K4 search engine optimisation
K5 mobile marketing (e.g. Pay Per Click)
K6 social media marketing
K7 e-mail marketing
K8 display marketing
K9 legal issues/requirements
Skills Examples
S1 understand how web technology can be used for marketing purposes
S2 understand user centric marketing
S3 be able to use and interpret web analytics
S4 understand the on-line environment
E - Manage
E.1. Forecast Development
Interprets market needs and evaluates market acceptance of products or services. Assesses the organisation's potential to meet future production and quality requirements. Applies relevant metrics to enable accurate decision making in support of production, marketing, sales and distribution functions.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Exploits skills to provide short-term forecast using market inputs and assessing the organisation's production and selling capabilities.
Proficiency Level 4 - Acts with wide ranging accountability for the production of a long-term forecast. Understands the global marketplace, identifying and evaluating relevant inputs from the broader business, political and social context.
Knowledge Examples
K1 market size and relevant fluctuations
K2 accessibility of the market according to current conditions (e.g. government policies, emerging technologies, social and cultural trends, etc.)
K3 the extended supply chain operation
K4 large scale data analysis techniques (data mining)
Skills Examples
S1 apply what-if techniques to produce realistic outlooks
S2 generate sales forecasts in relation to current market share
S3 generate production forecasts taking into account manufacturing capacity
S4 compare sales and production forecasts and analyse potential mismatches
S5 interpret external research data and analyse information
E.2. Project and Portfolio Management
Implements plans for a programme of change. Plans and directs a single or portfolio of Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) projects to ensure co-ordination and management of interdependencies. Orchestrates projects to develop or implement new, internal or externally defined processes to meet identified business needs. Defines activities, responsibilities, critical milestones, resources, skills needs, interfaces and budget, optimises costs and time utilisation, minimises waste and strives for high quality. Develops contingency plans to address potential implementation issues. Delivers project on time, on budget and in accordance with original requirements. Creates and maintains documents to facilitate monitoring of project progress.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Understands and applies the principles of project management and applies methodologies, tools and processes to manage simple projects, optimises costs and minimises waste.
Proficiency Level 3 - Accounts for own and others activities, working within the project boundary, making choices and giving instructions, optimising activities and resources. Manages and supervises relationships within the team; plans and establishes team objectives and outputs and documents results.
Proficiency Level 4 - Manages complex projects or programmes, including interaction with others. Influences project strategy by proposing new or alternative solutions and balancing effectiveness and efficiency. Is empowered to revise rules and choose standards. Takes overall responsibility for project outcomes, including finance and resource management and works beyond project boundary.
Proficiency Level 5 - Provides strategic leadership for extensive interrelated programmes of work to ensure that Information Technology is a change enabling agent and delivers benefit in line with overall business strategic aims. Applies extensive business and technological mastery to conceive and bring innovative ideas to fruition.
Knowledge Examples
K1 a project methodology, including approaches to define project steps and tools to set up action plans
K2 technologies to be implemented within the project
K3 company business strategy and business processes
K4 development and compliance to financial plans and budgets
K5 Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) principles and regulation
K6 structured project management methodologies (e.g. agile techniques)
Skills Examples
S1 identify project risks and define action plans to mitigate
S2 define a project plan by breaking it down into individual project tasks
S3 communicate project progress to all relevant parties reporting on topics such as cost control, schedule achievements, quality control, risk avoidance and changes to project specifications
S4 delegate tasks and manage team member contributions appropriately
S5 manage external ,contracted resources to achieve project objectives
S6 optimise project portfolio timelines and delivery objectives by achieving consensus on stakeholder priorities
E.3. Risk Management
Implements the management of risk across information systems through the application of the enterprise defined risk management policy and procedure. Assesses risk to the organisation's business, including web, cloud and mobile resources. Documents potential risk and containment plans.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Understands and applies the principles of risk management and investigates Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) solutions to mitigate identified risks.
Proficiency Level 3 - Decides on appropriate actions required to adapt security and address risk exposure. Evaluates, manages and ensures validation of exceptions; audits Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) processes and environment.
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership to define and make applicable a policy for risk management by considering all the possible constraints, including technical, economic and political issues. Delegates assignments.
Knowledge Examples
K1 apply risk analysis taking into account corporate values and interests
K2 the return on investment compared to risk avoidance
K3 good practices (methodologies) and standards in risk analysis
Skills Examples
S1 develop risk management plan to identify required preventative actions
S2 communicate and promote the organisation's risk analysis outcomes and risk management processes
S3 design and document the processes for risk analysis and management
S4 apply mitigation and contingency actions
E.4. Relationship Management
Establishes and maintains positive business relationships between stakeholders (internal or external) deploying and complying with organisational processes. Maintains regular communication with customer/ partner/ supplier, and addresses needs through empathy with their environment and managing supply chain communications. Ensures that stakeholder needs, concerns or complaints are understood and addressed in accordance with organisational policy.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Accounts for own and others actions in managing a limited number of stakeholders
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership for large or many stakeholder relationships. Authorises investment in new and existing relationships. Leads the design of a workable procedure for maintaining positive business relationships.
Knowledge Examples
K1 organisation processes including, decision making, budgets and management structure
K2 business objectives, own and of other stakeholders
K3 how to measure and apply resources to meet stakeholder requirements
K4 business challenges and risks
Skills Examples
S1 deploy empathy to customer needs
S2 identify potential win win opportunities for client and own organisation
S3 establish realistic expectations to support development of mutual trust
S4 monitor ongoing commitments to ensure fulfilment
S5 communicate good and bad news to avoid surprises
E.5. Process Improvement
Measures effectiveness of existing Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) processes. Researches and benchmarks Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) process design from a variety of sources. Follows a systematic methodology to evaluate, design and implement process or technology changes for measurable business benefit. Assesses potential adverse consequences of process change.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Exploits specialist knowledge to research existing Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) processes and solutions in order to define possible innovations. Makes recommendations based on reasoned arguments.
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership and authorises implementation of innovations and improvements that will enhance competitiveness or efficiency. Demonstrates to senior management the business advantage of potential changes.
Knowledge Examples
K1 research methods, benchmarks and measurements methods
K2 evaluation, design and implementation methodologies
K3 existing internal processes
K4 relevant developments in Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) (e.g. virtualisation, open data, etc.), and the potential impact on processes
K5 web, cloud and mobile technologies
K6 resource optimisation and waste reduction
Skills Examples
S1 compose, document and catalogue essential processes and procedures
S2 propose process changes to facilitate and rationalise improvements
S3 implement process changes
E.6. Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) Quality Management
Implements Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) quality policy to maintain and enhance service and product provision. Plans and defines indicators to manage quality with respect to Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) strategy. Reviews quality measures and recommends enhancements to influence continuous quality improvement.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Communicates and monitors application of the organisation's quality policy.
Proficiency Level 3 - Evaluates quality management indicators and processes based on Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) quality policy and proposes remedial action.
Proficiency Level 4 - Assesses and estimates the degree to which quality requirements have been met and provides leadership for quality policy implementation. Provides cross functional leadership for setting and exceeding quality standards.
Knowledge Examples
K1 which methods, tools and procedure are applied within the organisation and where they should be applied
K2 the Information Services (IS) internal quality audit approach
K3 regulations and standards in energy efficiency and e-waste
Skills Examples
S1 illustrate how methods, tools and procedures can be applied to implement the organisation's quality policy
S2 evaluate and analyse process steps to identify strengths and weaknesses
S3 assist process owners in the choice and use of measures to evaluate effectiveness and efficiency of the overall process
S4 monitor, understand and act upon quality indicators
S5 perform quality audits
E.7. Business Change Management
Assesses the implications of new digital solutions. Defines the requirements and quantifies the business benefits. Manages the deployment of change taking into account structural and cultural issues. Maintains business and process continuity throughout change, monitoring the impact, taking any required remedial action and refining approach.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 3 - Evaluates change requirements and exploits specialist skills to identify possible methods and standards that can be deployed
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership to plan, manage and implement significant Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) led business change.
Proficiency Level 5 - Applies pervasive influence to embed organisational change.
Knowledge Examples
K1 digital strategies
K2 the impact of business changes on the organisation and human resources
K3 the impact of business changes on legal issues
Skills Examples
S1 analyse costs and benefits of business changes
S2 select appropriate Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) solutions based upon benefit, risks and overall impact
S3 construct and document a plan for implementation of process enhancements
S4 apply project management standards and tools
E.8. Information Security Management
Implements information security policy. Monitors and takes action against intrusion, fraud and security breaches or leaks. Ensures that security risks are analysed and managed with respect to enterprise data and information. Reviews security incidents, makes recommendations for security policy and strategy to ensure continuous improvement of security provision.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 2 - Systematically scans the environment to identify and define vulnerabilities and threats. Records and escalates non-compliance
Proficiency Level 3 - Evaluates security management measures and indicators and decides if compliant to information security policy. Investigates and instigates remedial measures to address any security breaches.
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership for the integrity, confidentiality and availability of data stored on information systems and complies with all legal requirements.
Knowledge Examples
K1 the organisation's security management policy and its implications for engagement with customers, suppliers and subcontractors
K2 the best practices and standards in information security management
K3 the critical risks for information security management
K4 the Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) internal audit approach
K5 security detection techniques, including mobile and digital
K6 cyber attack techniques and counter measures for avoidance
K7 computer forensics
Skills Examples
S1 document the information security management policy, linking it to business strategy
S2 analyse the company critical assets and identify weaknesses and vulnerability to intrusion or attack
S3 establish a risk management plan to feed and produce preventative action plans
S4 perform security audits
S5 apply monitoring and testing techniques
S6 establish the recovery plan
S7 implement the recovery plan in case of crisis
E.9. Information Services (IS) Governance
Defines, deploys and controls the management of information systems in line with business imperatives. Takes into account all internal and external parameters such as legislation and industry standard compliance to influence risk management and resource deployment to achieve balanced business benefit.
Proficiency Levels
Proficiency Level 4 - Provides leadership for Information Services (IS) governance strategy by communicating, propagating and controlling relevant processes across the entire Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) infrastructure.
Proficiency Level 5 - Defines and aligns the Information Services (IS) governance strategy incorporating it into the organisation's corporate governance strategy. Adapts the Information Services (IS) governance strategy to take into account new significant events arising from legal, economic, political, business, technological or environmental issues.
Knowledge Examples
K1 the Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) infrastructure and the business organisation
K2 the business strategy of the company
K3 the business values
K4 the legal requirements
Skills Examples
S1 manage applicable governance models
S2 analyse the business context of the company and its evolution
S3 define and implement appropriate Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
S4 communicate the value, risks and opportunities derived from the Information Services (IS) strategy
